# guides-features-opds

Kavita Wiki 🎉 Kavita v 0.9.0.2 is released. Read more → Kavita Demo GitHub GitHub Discord Discord Light Getting Started Installation Native Install Docker Install LinuxServer.io Image DockerHub Image Github Image NAS Install Managed Hosting Remote Access Apache2 Example Caddy Example HAProxy Example NGINX Example NGINX Proxy Manager (Docker) Swag Example Updating Updating Docker Updating Native Guides Admin Settings General Media Email Users OpenID Connect Libraries Tasks System Statistics Media Issues Kavita+ User Settings Account Preferences Reading profiles 3rd Party Clients Theme Devices Profile Scrobbling Features Bookmarks Customization Collections Filtering OPDS Reading Lists CBL Import Relationships Metadata General Comics Epubs PDFs Readers Epub Reader Comic/Manga Reader PDF Reader Library Scanner Managing Files Comic (Flexible) Comic EPUB Images Manga PDF 3rd Party Clients Aidoku CDisplayEX Dedicated Kavita Apps Komic KOReader Mylar Panels Paperback Mihon Yomu External Tools Manga-Manager Komf ComicTagger Epub to CBZ Calibre Sigil Obsidian CBZ Cover Manager CBZ Missing Sequence Checker Custom Themes API Troubleshooting FAQ Media Errors Kavita+ Metadata Progress Sync Recs, Ratings, & Reviews Smart Collections Management K+ FAQ Changelog Contributing Donating Licenses Light On This Page Kavita Implementation Continue From Progress Encoded Icons OPDS capable clients Android iOS Other Help improve this page Scroll to top Guides Features OPDS OPDS OPDS is an open standard for browsing and consuming content on your server from external readers. OPDS support is enabled by default on all Kavita installs. This will grant all your users a unique URL and Auth key to access your server from external readers. You can use any Auth Key with OPDS. From this UI, a user can use the copy button to quickly copy it into their clipboard. If the admin has set the hostname of the server, then the OPDS URL will be the full domain name. Kavita supports OPDS and the expanded page streaming specification called OPDS-PS. The expanded OPDS-PS can support images, but not as many clients have support for it. While OPDS and OPDS-PS cover a lot of use cases, the absolute best way to interact with the content on your server is through Kavita’s API. Clients that use the API have a richer experience and can support new advanced features as they are added to Kavita. Kavita Implementation Since Kavita supports rich collections like Smart Filters, Collections, Want to Read, Reading Lists, and Series, the OPDS feed will have different entries for each. Search works across these entities (assuming OpenSearch support) and all feeds have pagination support. Kavita also offers a few enhancements not traditionally found in other OPDS Servers (these are configurable in User Settings): Continue From If you have reading progress on a Series/Volume/Reading List, Kavita will generate a “Continue From X” item at the top of the first page. This is an alias of the underlying file and allows you to skip scrolling until you find your location. Progress Encoded Icons Kavita also encodes reading progress directly into the title (since metadata support is limited in clients). Kavita will encode the following icons at the start of the OPDS Item title: ⭘ - No Progress ◔ - less than or equal to 25% Progress ◑ - less than or equal to 50% Progress ◕ - less than or equal to 100% Progress ⬤ - Fully Read OPDS capable clients Android Name Opds Opds-PS Epub Progress Sync API Librera ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ Moon Reader ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ Kubo Reader ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ Mihon ✗* ✗ ✗ ✓** ✓ CDisplayEx ✗* ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ * Does not use opds. However, for ease of setup, the same link retrieved from this setting is used ** Progress syncing is done per chapter, not per page iOS Name Opds Opds-PS Epub Progress Sync API Chunky ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ Panels ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ Yomu ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ Paperback ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓** ✓ Aidoku ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓** ✓ * Does not use opds. However, for ease of setup, the same link retrieved from this setting is used ** Progress syncing is done per chapter, not per page Other Name Opds Opds-PS Epub Progress Sync API KOReader ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ Have a suggestion for an app that we can connect with? Drop by the Feature Request Discussions page and suggest it or upvote existing requests. Filtering Reading Lists Home Demo Get Started Guides Open Collective Open Collective GitHub GitHub Discord Discord © Copyright 2026 Kavita