# koreader

Kavita Wiki 🎉 Kavita v 0.9.0.2 is released. Read more → Kavita Demo GitHub GitHub Discord Discord Light Getting Started Installation Native Install Docker Install LinuxServer.io Image DockerHub Image Github Image NAS Install Managed Hosting Remote Access Apache2 Example Caddy Example HAProxy Example NGINX Example NGINX Proxy Manager (Docker) Swag Example Updating Updating Docker Updating Native Guides Admin Settings General Media Email Users OpenID Connect Libraries Tasks System Statistics Media Issues Kavita+ User Settings Account Preferences Reading profiles 3rd Party Clients Theme Devices Profile Scrobbling Features Bookmarks Customization Collections Filtering OPDS Reading Lists CBL Import Relationships Metadata General Comics Epubs PDFs Readers Epub Reader Comic/Manga Reader PDF Reader Library Scanner Managing Files Comic (Flexible) Comic EPUB Images Manga PDF 3rd Party Clients Aidoku CDisplayEX Dedicated Kavita Apps Komic KOReader Mylar Panels Paperback Mihon Yomu External Tools Manga-Manager Komf ComicTagger Epub to CBZ Calibre Sigil Obsidian CBZ Cover Manager CBZ Missing Sequence Checker Custom Themes API Troubleshooting FAQ Media Errors Kavita+ Metadata Progress Sync Recs, Ratings, & Reviews Smart Collections Management K+ FAQ Changelog Contributing Donating Licenses Light On This Page KOReader What is KOReader? Setup KOReader for usage with Kavita Run a full FORCED SCAN of the library you want to sync against Setting up the OPDS source Open the OPDS catalog list Add the Kavita Catalog Setting up Progress Synchronization Open any Book Setup the Custom Sync Server Archive (CBR/CBZ files) Streaming Help improve this page Scroll to top Guides 3rd Party Clients KOReader KOReader What is KOReader? KOReader is a document viewer for E-ink devices. Supported file formats include EPUB, PDF, DjVu, XPS, CBT, CBZ, FB2, PDB, TXT, HTML, RTF, CHM, DOC, MOBI and ZIP files. It’s available for Kindle, Kobo, PocketBook, Android and desktop Linux. - KOReader website Setup KOReader for usage with Kavita ℹ️ For the purpose of this guide, a working KOReader setup is assumed. Also, please be aware that your screen may look different from the screenshots, based on your screen size. Run a full FORCED SCAN of the library you want to sync against ℹ️ This is required ONCE , when the library has been created before v0.8.7 (or once after v0.8.9 if you want PDF/Archive support). It will generate the hash for existing books, books that are added afterwards will have the hash generated when they’re added. Click the leftmost button of the Edit Library dialog (see picture below for reference). Setting up the OPDS source KOReader supports the OPDS standard, which we will use to make your Kavita Library accessible. You will need to retrieve the OPDS URL from your settings. Open the OPDS catalog list In the File Browser, open the menu, tap the Looking Glass (🔍), and look for the menu entry “OPDS Catalog” Add the Kavita Catalog Tap the plus sign in the upper left Fill out the dialog Field Value Catalog Name A name of your choosing Catalog URL Your OPDS URL Username Your account username Password Can be anything Setting up Progress Synchronization Since v0.8.7, Kavita supports 2-way sync of your reading progress. However, it needs to be enabled in KOReader first. ℹ️ You will need the Auth key to set up progress sync Open any Book The relevant plugin is only displayed when actually reading a book. Setup the Custom Sync Server Open the menu “Plugins” by tapping the icon below in the menu bar, then Progress Sync. Tap “Custom Sync Server” In the dialog, that pops up now, enter <your-kavita-server>/api/koreader/<your-api-token> Tap ‘Register / Login’ Login with your username, and password matching your auth key With this, you can now push/pull reading progress to/from Kavita for Archives, PDF, and Epub files. ⚠️ The automatic sync can potentially undo reading progress. We strongly advise against using it. We also cannot support you on recovering potentially lost progress. Archive (CBR/CBZ files) Streaming KOReader supports OPDS-PS for page streaming and Kavita supports Progress Sync for Archives as well. Open OPDS Catalog Select Kavita Server Navigate to any book in archive form and press it For an unread book the option on the left “Page Stream” will bring you to page 1. The second option on the right “Stream From Page” will start you on a page you choose. When a book has been streamed there will be a third resume streaming option. Komic Mylar Home Demo Get Started Guides Open Collective Open Collective GitHub GitHub Discord Discord © Copyright 2026 Kavita