# mihon-tachiyomi

Kavita Wiki 🎉 Kavita v 0.9.0.2 is released. Read more → Kavita Demo GitHub GitHub Discord Discord Light Getting Started Installation Native Install Docker Install LinuxServer.io Image DockerHub Image Github Image NAS Install Managed Hosting Remote Access Apache2 Example Caddy Example HAProxy Example NGINX Example NGINX Proxy Manager (Docker) Swag Example Updating Updating Docker Updating Native Guides Admin Settings General Media Email Users OpenID Connect Libraries Tasks System Statistics Media Issues Kavita+ User Settings Account Preferences Reading profiles 3rd Party Clients Theme Devices Profile Scrobbling Features Bookmarks Customization Collections Filtering OPDS Reading Lists CBL Import Relationships Metadata General Comics Epubs PDFs Readers Epub Reader Comic/Manga Reader PDF Reader Library Scanner Managing Files Comic (Flexible) Comic EPUB Images Manga PDF 3rd Party Clients Aidoku CDisplayEX Dedicated Kavita Apps Komic KOReader Mylar Panels Paperback Mihon Yomu External Tools Manga-Manager Komf ComicTagger Epub to CBZ Calibre Sigil Obsidian CBZ Cover Manager CBZ Missing Sequence Checker Custom Themes API Troubleshooting FAQ Media Errors Kavita+ Metadata Progress Sync Recs, Ratings, & Reviews Smart Collections Management K+ FAQ Changelog Contributing Donating Licenses Light On This Page Add Kavita extension repository Installation Setup Usage Browse all your libraries Browse recently added Customization To change the name of the source Advanced customization Tags Grouping Dynamic Cover Updates EPUB Visibility Reading List: Display Release Date Chapters: Display Release Dates Chapter Title Format Scanlator Format Allowed Libraries on Latest/Popular Feeds & Suggestions Allowed Libraries in Search Sync Progress with Kavita Help improve this page Scroll to top Guides 3rd Party Clients Mihon ⚠️ Currently, we only support the official Mihon app and Komikku. Forks that are confirmed to work: TachiyomiSY. Add Kavita extension repository You can click on this button from your Android to automatically add the repo: Otherwise, In Mihon, go to “More” > “Settings” > “Browse” > “Extension repos” Click on “Add” Input this URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Kareadita/tach-extension/repo/index.min.json Installation First of all make sure Kavita is updated. After that, after opening Mihon, go to Browse in the lower nav. Select the Extensions tab at the top of the screen. Now you can either scroll down until you find it or hit the search icon and write Kavita in it. (Make sure to toggle “Multi” in the languages to see the extension) Once you find or search tap install. In the confirmation menu hit install again. Make sure to click “Trust” on the extension once installed. Setup To make the extension link with your Kavita instance we need the OPDS URL. The steps to get the OPDS URL are: Access your Kavita instance from your web browser and log in Access your Kavita user dashboard Switch to “3rd Party Clients” tab Copy the text under the OPDS URL Once the OPDS URL is obtained open Mihon Go back to the Mihon extensions tab Tap Kavita Tap the gear icon in one of the sources. (sources explained in customization) Tap OPDS URL setting Paste your OPDS URL (If your OPDS URL address differs from your Kavita address, change it.) Tap ok Restart Mihon Browse your library Usage Browse all your libraries Browse recently added Customization Once installed the user has access to 3 sources. This means you can have access to 3 different Kavita servers. On each source, you can set up different OPDS URLs and different filter preferences. By default, these are differentiated with a number. 1, 2 and 3. You can change each identifier with your own name. ⚠️ You can only add different domains as instances—adding the same domain twice will cause both sources to break. To change the name of the source Follow the same process used for OPDS but tap “Source Display Name” instead. Advanced customization The extension offers extensive customization. There is no breaking settings so you’re free to play around with them. Here is a description of each option. Tags Grouping This is only for forks. This does not work with the original Mihon. This will turn your genres/tags list into organized categories, like so: → (left: disabled ; right: enabled) Dynamic Cover Updates Everytime your title is refreshed, it will check what Volume/Issue you’re currently reading and sync the cover. EPUB Visibility This is disabled by default because Kavita Epubs can’t be read in Mihon, but you can enable it if needed here. Reading List: Display Release Date When enabled, the extension will display the original Release Date of the chapter instead of the date it was added to your Kavita server. Chapters: Display Release Dates When enabled, the extension will display the original Release Date for individual chapters instead of the date the chapter was added to your Kavita server. This is useful for accurate chronological sorting. Chapter Title Format This allows you to customize the title shown for each chapter using special format codes based on the metadata available in Kavita. ⚠️ Use variables without curly braces, e.g., $CleanTitle instead of ${CleanTitle} . Available variables: $Type - Chapter/Episode/Volume/Issue/Special $No - Chapter number $Title - Original chapter title $CleanTitle - Custom-cleaned chapter title (default) $Pages - Number of pages $Size - File size $Volume - Volume number (If available) $SeriesName - Series name $LibraryName - Library name $Format - File format (CBZ, PDF, etc.) $Created - Creation date $ReleaseDate - Release date Scanlator Format Similar to the chapter title, this lets you customize the text displayed in the Scanlator field using available metadata variables. ⚠️ Use variables without curly braces, e.g., $CleanTitle instead of ${CleanTitle} . Available variables: $Type - Chapter/Episode/Volume/Issue/Special $No - Chapter number $Title - Original chapter title $CleanTitle - Custom-cleaned chapter title (default) $Pages - Number of pages $Size - File size $Volume - Volume number (If available) $SeriesName - Series name $LibraryName - Library name $Format - File format (CBZ, PDF, etc.) $Created - Creation date $ReleaseDate - Release date Allowed Libraries on Latest/Popular Feeds & Suggestions Use this setting to filter content on the main browsing tabs. Only content from the selected Kavita libraries will appear in the Latest , Popular feeds. For Komikku, this will be applied to Suggestions as well. Allowed Libraries in Search Use this setting to filter content when performing a global search. Only content from the selected Kavita libraries will return results when searching within the extension. Sync Progress with Kavita Kavita has progress sync with Mihon. It will automatically mark completed chapters as read in both apps. It does not sync page progress, it only syncs when a chapter is complete. To activate tracking go to settings > Tracking and click on Kavita at the bottom. After activating it will appear with the rest of the trackers on your manga page. Make sure it shows it is active otherwise, it will not sync. Paperback Yomu Home Demo Get Started Guides Open Collective Open Collective GitHub GitHub Discord Discord © Copyright 2026 Kavita